---
industries: [telecom]
functional: [architecture]
---

## Project: RTK-SDS – Project 'Storage'

**Industry:** Telecom

**Employer:** Rostelecom.Restream

**Client:** Rostelecom.Restream

**Project Code:** RTK-SDS

**Start Date:** Nov 2016

**End Date:** Dec 2016

**Role(s):** Business Analyst

**Key Result:** Customer requirements were analyzed, and a balanced solution for enterprise data storage (SDS - Software Defined Storage) was proposed, which allowed the organization to make the right choice, enhance data reliability, availability, and processing speed, and save significant funds.

### Situation
Rostelecom.Restream operated in the field of data analysis for its parent company, Rostelecom. Data volumes were constantly growing, requiring reliable storage and accessibility. Various departments receiving diverse data (both structured and unstructured) had their own opinions on data storage and processing, which created a need for a unified and efficient solution.

### Task
I was tasked with selecting the optimal data storage solution for the enterprise. The task included analyzing requirements from various stakeholders, accounting for the diversity of data types and their lifecycles, and selecting and presenting solution options that could ensure data reliability, accessibility, and processing speed.

### Actions
I undertook the following actions over a period of 2 years (from December 2016 to December 2018):
* **Requirements and Data Type Analysis:** I analyzed the requirements received from stakeholders within our organization. Given that several departments received diverse data (both structured and unstructured) and each had its own opinion on data storage and processing, I categorized all data streams by type.
* **Data Lifecycle Analysis:** For each data type, I thoroughly analyzed its lifecycle, which helped determine optimal storage and access strategies.
* **Formulated Solution Requirements and Constraints:** I compiled a comprehensive list of requirements for the solution and imposed corresponding constraints, as well as requirements for the Software Defined Storage (SDS) system itself.
* **Selection and Presentation of Solution Options:** Subsequently, I was able to select several solution options that met all requirements and constraints and presented them to the architectural committee. Each option was accompanied by a description of its advantages and disadvantages.

### Result
As a result of my work:
* **The Organization Received Balanced Solution Options:** Well-thought-out and balanced solution options were presented, with described advantages and disadvantages. This helped Rostelecom.Restream make the right choice when selecting the storage system.
* **Enhanced Data Reliability and Accessibility:** Ultimately, this provided Rostelecom.Restream with additional benefits in service delivery: increased data storage reliability and availability.
* **Increased Data Processing Speed:** Data processing speed significantly increased, which is critical for analyzing large volumes of information.
* **Customer Data Specificity Accounted For:** The nature of each customer's data and its lifecycle were considered, leading to improved service quality and customer satisfaction.
* **Significant Cost Savings:** It is important to note that significant funds were saved because the solution was chosen correctly, and no unjustified expenses were incurred.