---
industries: [consulting]
functional: [erp]
---

# 31
## Project: EPM-SPC – Single Profile Concept

**Industry:** IT Services
**Domain:** Enterprise Architecture, Data Management
**Employer:** EPAM
**Client:** EPAM
**Project Code:** EPM-SPC
**Start Date:** Jan 2022
**End Date:** Jul 2022
**Role(s):** Enterprise Architect
**Key Result:** A single profile concept was created and used as a foundation for four new projects, leading to significant time savings, process unification, and improved company image.

### Situation
EPAM Systems had multiple fragmented systems for processing data about employees and various contacts (e.g., student interns, community members). These discrepancies in contact accounting became significant and created confusion and problems in business processes, hindering data unification and effective management.

### Task
Management tasked me with creating a single profile concept for accounting for all types of contacts. This profile was to be used not only for employees but also for other contact types. It was necessary to analyze existing accounting processes and develop rules for transforming these profiles, so that this concept could then be extended across the entire organization.

### Actions
I undertook the following actions over a period of 7 months (from January to July 2022):
* **Analysis of Current Processes:** I held many interviews with stakeholders to understand how existing accounting processes worked in various systems.
* **Formalization and Design:** I formalized the existing processes and developed a description of the future information architecture. I created the single contact profile concept, detailing its business architecture (management processes) and information architecture (information concept, data flows).

### Result
As a result of my work:
* **A Single Profile Concept was Created:** I created a single contact profile concept that became the foundation for the future development of information systems.
* **Launched New Projects:** The results of this project launched four new projects in the organization (e.g., Central Permission Engine — project #32, Profile Storage — project #33).
* **Significant Savings and Unification:** These projects created a solid foundation for the further development of information systems, simplifying and unifying processes across the organization, which led to significant savings in work hours.
* **Improved Company Image:** The improvements in data and process management had a positive impact on the company's image.