---
industries: [telecom]
functional: [data-analytics]
roles: [business-analyst, solution-architect]
---

# 21
## Project: RTK-SPDZ – Informing clients about the debt on their account (SPDZ)

**Industry:** Telecom
**Domain:** Customer Service & Communications
**Employer:** Rostelecom
**Client:** Rostelecom
**Project Code:** RTK-SPDZ
**Start Date:** May 2017
**End Date:** May 2019
**Role(s):** Solution Architect
**Key Result:** A unified approach for managing client notifications was proposed. A solution architecture was created, and documentation was handed over for implementation, which significantly reduced accounts receivable (by three times) and brought significant economic benefits.

### Situation
The company's accounts receivable were growing, which reduced the company's effectiveness and prevented it from using funds in its operational activities. The tool for informing clients was outdated, using reconciliation statements and email correspondence, which was inefficient and labor-intensive.

### Task
My task was to create a system that would solve these problems. To do this, it was necessary to introduce regular and accurate notifications to debtors, which was expected to help significantly reduce accounts receivable.

### Actions
I undertook the following actions over a period of 2 years (from May 2017 to May 2019):
* **Requirements Gathering:** I met with stakeholders and gathered their requirements and constraints for the system.
* **Solution Design:** Based on the gathered information, I designed the solution architecture for the accounts receivable notification system (SPDZ).
* **Documentation Preparation:** The documentation for the solution was prepared and handed over for development.

### Result
As a result of my work:
* **A Debtor Notification System was Implemented:** The company implemented the system designed based on my specifications.
* **Significant Reduction in Accounts Receivable:** Client accounts receivable were significantly reduced—by three times.
* **Indirect Effects were Gained:** The time for reconciling mutual settlements with clients was reduced, as was the volume of paper documentation processing and email correspondence.
* **A Significant Economic Result was Achieved:** Overall, the system provided a significant economic result for my company.