---
industries: [telecom]
functional: [loyalty]
roles: [enterprise-architect]
---

# 24
## Project: RTK-PLE – Loyalty Program Effectiveness Evaluation

**Industry:** Telecom
**Domain:** Digital Marketing, Loyalty Program Management
**Employer:** Rostelecom
**Client:** Rostelecom
**Project Code:** RTK-PLE
**Start Date:** Aug 2017
**End Date:** Aug 2019
**Role(s):** Solution Architect, Enterprise Architect
**Key Result:** A comprehensive approach and methodology were developed for evaluating the effectiveness of loyalty programs. Practical changes were made at the IT systems level to implement the evaluation process, which led to an increase in revenue and profit through additional sales and new marketing initiatives.

### Situation
Rostelecom, as the largest telecom operator, had a loyalty program, but it was very basic and used inefficiently. Customers simply accumulated points that they could spend on communication services. The customer journey was very primitive, lacking segmentation, offer targeting, analytics, and other modern technologies, which diminished the program's potential as a business tool.

### Task
My task was to audit the loyalty program from both a business and a systemic, architectural perspective. I needed to find growth opportunities for the loyalty program so that it could become an effective tool for increasing profit.

### Actions
I undertook the following actions over a period of 2 years (from August 2017 to August 2019):
* **Conducted Audits and Interviews:** I conducted surveys and interviews with both business and technology teams to understand the internal workings of the loyalty program and identify its weaknesses.
* **Analyzed Experience and Wishes:** I took into account the business's wishes and used my experience with loyalty programs for Gazprom Neft (projects #6 and #12) to find the best solutions.
* **Developed an Effectiveness Evaluation Methodology:** I developed and presented a methodology for evaluating the loyalty program's effectiveness, which included specific metrics and indicators.
* **Implemented Changes at the IT Systems Level:** I proposed and supervised practical changes at the IT systems level necessary to implement the loyalty program effectiveness evaluation process.
* **Technologies:** The work utilized technologies such as Radius, IoT, Data Management, and DWH for data collection and processing.

### Result
As a result of my work:
* **Inefficiency Discovered and Eliminated:** The inefficiency of the loyalty program was timely discovered, clearly demonstrated to stakeholders, and successfully eliminated.
* **Increased Revenue and Profit:** The company as a whole increased revenue and profit through additional sales to customers.
* **Implemented New Tools:** A recommendation system, additional promotions, and marketing events were implemented.