---
industries: [consulting]
functional: [architecture]
roles: [business-analyst, solution-architect, product-manager]
---

# 36
## Project: DANF-ACO – Authorization Cockpit

**Industry:** Manufacturing
**Domain:** Solution Architecture, CIAM
**Employer:** EPAM
**Client:** Danfoss
**Project Code:** DANF-ACO
**Start Date:** Oct 2023
**End Date:** Feb 2024
**Role(s):** Solution Architect
**Key Result:** A clear implementation roadmap and a capability map were developed, enabling the client to select the right vendor and launch development with a clear, cost-effective plan that met business needs.

### Situation
The client, Danfoss, a leading company in the Manufacturing & Auto industry, needed to develop a new web application called Authorization Cockpit. This application was a new **CIAM (Customer Identity and Access Management)** solution that would manage user and partner authorizations. The application had to be built from scratch, and the client needed to get the **MVP (Minimum Viable Product)** live in the second half of the year.

### Task
My task was to define, design, and develop the Authorization Cockpit web application. This involved ensuring it aligned with the client's requirements, leveraging their UI components library, creating a prioritized backlog of development tasks, an implementation roadmap, and a capability map for the enterprise. The goal was to provide a prioritised, cost-efficient plan and a vendor choice.

### Actions
I undertook the following actions over a period of 5 months (from October 2023 to February 2024):
* **Comprehensive Landscape Scan:** I conducted a comprehensive scan of the enterprise landscape, including its business, applications, and architecture.
* **Requirements Collection:** I conducted interviews and collected requirements, business rules, and restrictions for the future solution from various stakeholders.
* **Requirements Processing:** I processed the business requirements and formulated functional requirements.
* **Solution Development Participation:** I actively participated in the development of the solution.
* **Prioritized Backlog & Roadmap:** I prepared a prioritized backlog of development tasks and an implementation roadmap.
* **Capability Mapping:** I developed a capability map for the enterprise in its current and future states.
* **Vendor Information Preparation:** I prepared documentation for vendor selection to help the client choose the right supplier.

### Result
As a result of my work:
* **Streamlined and Prioritized Requirements:** The existing requirements were streamlined and prioritized, which enabled the customer to select the right supplier and move forward with development at the lowest cost.
* **Aligned Solution:** The chosen solution closely met the customer's business needs, providing a clear path for development and implementation.
* **Well-Defined Roadmap and Capability Map:** A well-defined implementation roadmap and capability map were delivered, facilitating effective management and decision-making.